# Lexical Structure

SQL input consists of a sequence of commands.
A command is composed of a sequence of tokens, terminated by a semicolon (“;”).

``` sql
SELECT * FROM MY_TABLE;
UPDATE MY_TABLE SET A = 5;
INSERT INTO MY_TABLE VALUES (3, 'hi there');
```
This is a sequence of three commands.
We would usually speak of a “SELECT”, an “UPDATE”, and an “INSERT” command.

The SQL syntax is **not very consistent** regarding
what tokens identify commands and which are operands or parameters.



## Identifiers and key words

Tokens such as SELECT, UPDATE, or VALUES in the example above are examples of **key words**.
The tokens MY_TABLE and A are examples of **identifiers**.

Key words and unquoted identifiers are case-insensitive.

A convention often used is to write key words in upper case and names in lower case.

There is a second kind of identifier: the delimited identifier or quoted identifier.
It is formed by enclosing an arbitrary sequence of characters in double-quotes (").

"select" could be used to refer to a column or table named “select”,
whereas an unquoted select would be taken as a key word
and would therefore provoke a parse error when used where a table or column name is expected.

Quoting an identifier makes it case-sensitive.

The folding of unquoted names to lower case in PostgreSQL is incompatible with the SQL standard,
which says that unquoted names should be folded to upper case.

## Constants

There are three kinds of implicitly-typed constants in PostgreSQL: strings, bit strings, and numbers.

A string constant in SQL is an arbitrary sequence of characters bounded by **single quotes** (').

Bit-String Constants: B'1001', X'1FF'.

### Numeric Constants
+ 42
+ 3.5
+ 4.
+ .001

+ 5e2
+ 1.925e-3

+ 0b100101
+ 0B10011001
+ 0o273
+ 0O755
+ 0x42f
+ 0XFFFF

+ 1_500_000_000
+ 0b10001000_00000000
+ 0o_1_755
+ 0xFFFF_FFFF
+ 1.618_034

> Underscores are not allowed at the start or end of a numeric constant or a group of digits
> (that is, immediately before or after the decimal point or the exponent marker),
> and more than one underscore in a row is not allowed.

A numeric constant that contains neither a decimal point nor an exponent
is initially presumed to be type integer if its value fits in type integer (32 bits);
otherwise it is presumed to be type bigint if its value fits in type bigint (64 bits);
otherwise it is taken to be type numeric.
Constants that contain decimal points and/or exponents are always initially presumed to be type numeric.
