# The SQL Language

## Introduction
```
$ psql -s mydb

...

mydb=> \i basics.sql
```
The \i command reads in commands from the specified file. psql's -s option puts you in single step mode which pauses before sending each statement to the server.

## Concepts
Relation is essentially a mathematical term for table.

Each table is a named collection of rows. Each row of a given table has the same set of named columns, and each column is of a specific data type.

Tables are grouped into databases, and a collection of databases managed by a single PostgreSQL server instance constitutes a database cluster.

## Creating a New Table
SQL is case-insensitive about key words and identifiers, except when identifiers are double-quoted to preserve the case.

PostgreSQL **supports the standard SQL types** int, smallint, real, double precision, char(N), varchar(N), date, time, timestamp, and interval, as well as other types of general utility and a rich set of geometric types. PostgreSQL can be customized with an arbitrary number of user-defined data types.

``` sql
CREATE TABLE cities (
    name            varchar(80),
    location        point          -- The point type is an example of a PostgreSQL-specific data type.
);
```

## Populating a Table With Rows
Constants that are not simple numeric values usually must be surrounded by single quotes.

``` sql
INSERT INTO cities VALUES ('San Francisco', '(-194.0, 53.0)');
```

## Querying a Table
The statement(SELECT statement) is divided into a select list, a table list, and an optional qualification.

### expression example
``` sql
SELECT city, (temp_hi+temp_lo)/2 AS temp_avg, date FROM weather;
```
> Notice how the AS clause is used to relabel the output column. (The AS clause is **optional**.)

## Joins Between Tables
``` sql
SELECT * FROM weather JOIN cities ON city = name;
```
There are two columns containing the city name.

``` sql
SELECT weather.city, weather.temp_lo, weather.temp_hi,
       weather.prcp, weather.date, cities.location
    FROM weather JOIN cities ON weather.city = cities.name;
```

### left join
``` sql
SELECT *
    FROM weather LEFT OUTER JOIN cities ON weather.city = cities.name;
```

### self join, table label
``` sql
SELECT w1.city, w1.temp_lo AS low, w1.temp_hi AS high,
       w2.city, w2.temp_lo AS low, w2.temp_hi AS high
    FROM weather w1 JOIN weather w2
        ON w1.temp_lo < w2.temp_lo AND w1.temp_hi > w2.temp_hi;
```

## Aggregate Functions
An aggregate function **computes a single result from multiple input rows**. For example, there are aggregates to compute the count, sum, avg (average), max (maximum) and min (minimum) over a set of rows.

``` sql
SELECT max(temp_lo) FROM weather;
```

``` sql
SELECT city, count(*), max(temp_lo)
    FROM weather
    GROUP BY city;
```

``` sql
SELECT city, count(*), max(temp_lo)
    FROM weather
    GROUP BY city
    HAVING max(temp_lo) < 40;
```

+ **WHERE** selects input rows **before groups and aggregates are computed**.
+ **HAVING** selects group rows **after groups and aggregates are computed**.

> 没看懂 where 和 having。

## Updates
``` sql
UPDATE weather
    SET temp_hi = temp_hi - 2,  temp_lo = temp_lo - 2
    WHERE date > '1994-11-28';
```

## Deletions
``` sql
DELETE FROM weather WHERE city = 'Hayward';
```
